How are you doing?
(audience cheering)
We're good? Yeah?
Excellent, excellent.
Well I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity
to let me speak here.
I'm very humbled to be a part of this, all right?
I've never been happier, never been happier.
And for the first time in my life, I feel like I
don't have a job.
And I love it, it's fun.
So, Mark Twain had this great saying.
He said that the two most important days in a person's life
are number one, they day they're born.
And number two, the day they find out why.
Pretty cool, huh?
And so I humbly believe that if you get up in the morning
and you tell yourself you're going to work,
then with all due respect, you're doing it wrong.
You need to find your passion.
You need to find your raison d'etre.
Gregory, was that right?
Did I pronounce that right?
That was good?
All right.
You need to find your purpose.
You know, what was the reason you were put on this earth?
And so, for me it's teaching, I love it.
I wish I discovered it much earlier in my life.
So in terms of my background, I'm from Canada.
Every now and then, you'll hear me say oot and aboot.
Any Canadians here?
(audience member cheering)
Right there?
One? Two?
That's what I'm talkin' aboot.
Right there!
(audience laughing)
Excellent, excellent.
So yeah, I'm from Canada originally.
I started a couple of tech companies.
I worked in consulting, I came down to the States
to work on Wall Street.
Did the whole business school thing.
Worked for a hedge fund, came out to the west coast and
worked for a venture capital firm.
And I keep saying the word work, right?
Those were jobs, those were jobs.
And then I started teaching at night.
And I absolutely love it.
And teaching is very similar, actually, to working
in venture capital, where I used to work.
And the reason I say that is when you work
at venture capital, you sit on boards.
And your mission is to help your companies grow.
And as a teacher, your mission is to help your students
grow career-wise and help them find their passion and
their purpose as well.
It's a great gig, it really is.
And the wonderful thing about what all of us do
is our passions are to help others be more successful.
And there's not many professions like that in the world.
Okay, so what do I teach?
I teach business courses.
I teach personal development courses.
And I most recently started teaching
free teacher courses as well.
And so, I'm gonna talk about three things today.
All right, so let me kick it off with
why I teach online.
So I do a lot of charity work in East Palo Alto
on the board of this wonderful charity.
It's called the Lemo Foundation.
And our goal is to increase the high school graduation rate
in East Palo Alto from 40% to 100%.
Crazy, isn't it?
And so, I created this course and I really poured
my heart into it.
And this course I created for these students that I taught
on weekends in East Palo Alto
was basically a course to teach them how to be independent.
And so I thought about, okay, I teach MBA schools at night.
I've gone to MBA school years ago, whatever.
I have work experience.
What can I teach them to make them independent?
And so I created this course called
An Entire MBA in One Course.
And, you know, I taught it from my heart first.
And I really believe that if you think with your head first,
your heart second, you won't be successful.
And I want to thank all of you.
One of my students, named Folia Becker, right?
She was one of my business school students in class.
You know her?
(audience member cheering)
She's great, a little shout out!
I wish she was here, she's awesome.
Really, really nice.
So she was one of my students at a school called
The Hult International School of Business.
And she reached out to me after she graduated and she said
Chris, do you have time to meet for a mentor meeting?
And so of course I said yes.
A company I had never really heard of before
and I was blown away.
I was amazed by just the, the optimism
from everybody walking around.
I felt so damn old, right?
You, you've all accomplished a lot.
You know, you're very young for that too, it's amazing.
But the culture, in the sense of trust and community.
Reminded me of eBay back in the 90s, right?
And that's a compliment, right?
(scattered laughing)
I'll stop right there.
And so she introduced me to Michelle.
Let's get a shout out for Michelle, too.
Here we go, Michelle, yeah!
(audience clapping)
We have to do a shoutout for every employee
that's not here anymore.
Right? Right?
Maybe that's saying something about me, I don't know.
So Michelle's now in Hong Kong, I love her to death.
She's fantastic, she helped me out a lot.
And I started doing due diligence.
I humbly believe that a company is only as good
as its customer support.
And that means a lot because
the support team sets a good precedent and influences
us teachers, right?
And it influences us to provide excellent
customer support for our students.
And the customer is always right.
Okay, great.
So next up, we've got my overall experience.
It's been incredible.
Again, it's not a job, it's a passion.
Love it to death, love it to death.
Let's move on to my humble thoughts
on opportunities moving forward.
Big data platform.
And in venture capital, we like to say that
the loneliest place in the world is page two
of Google search rankings, right?
And our content...
Okay, what do we have next here?
There's a great quote here from Mark Zuckerberg.
He said the biggest risk is not taking any risk.
In a world that's changing really quickly
the only strategy that is guaranteed to fail
is not taking risks.
And I believe it.
And so I want to talk about risk-taking
and being the market leader.
And the best example of this is Netflix.
Netflix has taken a lot of risks.
They're the market leader.
Netflix, of course, changed their whole business model.
They got rid of the DVD business almost.
And they do streaming now.
But they did a couple of other things, too.
They took risks.
And so Bill Gates used to say,
that Microsoft, when he ran the company,
Microsoft is one half-years away from bankruptcy
at all times.
And the late, great Andy Grove used to say
that only the paranoid survive.
And I believe that.
I believe that, you gotta take risk and move
the goal post out as often as you can
otherwise you end up in...
And then you've got this land expand type business model
for that, right?
Pretty cool.
I now want to talk about YouTube stars.
And I've got three kids, three boys.
It's crazy but it's fun. I've got a 12-year-old,
11-year-old, and a seven-year-old.
And it is fascinating how they embrace media and content.
It's completely different from the way I did growing up.
They don't watch much TV. What they do is, they and
their friends love these YouTube stars.
There's this guy they love named Roman Atwood.
Anybody heard of Roman Atwood?
A couple people?
Okay, cool, I had no idea who he was
until my kids told me.
But It's amazing.
This guy has got 11 million subscribers on YouTube.
But I mentioned this because this next generation
of YouTube stars, they're born digital.
The margin structure for putting their content...
Embrace social media, YouTube, et cetera.
I think that's a great opportunity longer term.
Okay, next up I want to talk about audio only.
I believe the next platform that's gonna be relevant
in technology is voice.
Right, we've had the Alexa at home and a lot of you
have Alexas as well, and it's amazing.
It's an incredible platform, right?
And so, it's the next operating system that matters.
And when I look at audible.com, I think that this is
probably the best long-term subscription business
model there is.
And as a venture capitalist, I used to love,
and when I worked at Wall Street, I used to love investing
in companies that had streaming-based
subscription long-term contracts.
Because what happens is you lock in consumers
The churn is lower and you get better revenue growth
over time.
You lose a lot of share.
And I want to talk really quickly about iTunes.
iTunes was the market leader for years.
It kind of still is.
But you know what, I read this awesome report from Neilson's
this morning that said that iTunes music sales are
declining more, year over year now than offline music sales.
And iTunes, to me, feels like a
second-rate, bloated client-server software program.
They didn't reinvent themselves.
And Spotify certainly has.
So a shoutout to Spotify
and I think as the market leader, you got to keep
taking risks and reinventing yourself.
Okay, so, next up, a feature I would love to see humbly
is charitable donations at checkout.
Apple actually did a good job with this
to be intellectually honest with the red product line
And eBay did as well.
Okay, cool.
That's pretty damn cool.
And so, in closing
I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart.
For changing my life.
I couldn't be more proud, pleased,
and humbled to be a part of this.
So thank you very much.
(audience clapping)
There's no better feeling than having helped somebody
you know, find their passion. Or get a job.
And I've had a number of students reach out to me
keep asking over and over and over again
how should they.
Outstanding, so,
(audience applause)
love them, they're great, they're great.
So I want to talk about my mistakes first.
Okay, before I talk about what's worked.
What I initially did was...
And I get this impression that people...
I appreciate it, I recently published a course called
Forty Tips for Teaching Online.
And I talked about forty of my biggest failures, right?
And I felt that sharing my failures would help
a lot of teachers out.
And the biggest failure I had was I kept trying to buy
different microphones, different equipment.
And it's not that easy, man.
It's not like when you use an iPhone and you take a picture
it's pretty intuitive.
But when you video at home,
you gotta worry about the lighting
No two lights can be different colors
you have to have special towels on the wall to absorb
the sounds and whatnot.
And I wasted a lot of money in a couple months.
And then my wife came up with the great idea...
We used to use Airbnb at our house.
And Airbnb, when we first started doing it,
they sent a photographer over to our house
a week after we signed up.
Well, I'm so incredibly inspired by my students
my favorite stories are the ones that are
my students that are poor, smart, and hungry
and feel like they were kind of dealt a bad hand of cards
just being able to help them get to the next level
get into a business school or undergraduate school
or wherever it might be or be independent
it's just this sense of purpose.
I really wish I had discovered teaching earlier in my life
I mean, it's so awesome to be able to
tell yourself every day when you go to bed
that you helped improve somebody's life.
And like I said in my opening here today,
there's not many professions that you can actually
say you've helped somebody to realize
their full potential, their full passion.
And I'm incredibly blessed to be and honored and humbled
to be a part of this, Thank you.